[OSDOCS-3134]: AWS machineset support for EFA (#46408)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/machineset-creating-efa-options.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-aws.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="machineset-creating-efa-options_{context}"]
= Creating machines that use an AWS Elastic Fabric Adapter

You can deploy compute machines that use an AWS Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) by adding the `networkInterfaceType` field to the machine set YAML file for your compute machines.

.Prerequisites

* You have configured security groups to support the use of an EFA.
+

> Machines that use an EFA must belong to security groups that allow all traffic between all hosts in the security group. Clusters that use the Machine API are not configured to meet this requirement by default.

Reviewer: There are a number of rules defined for the worker security groups, but I don't see an allow all, https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/data/data/aws/cluster/vpc/sg-worker.tf, I haven't actually tried to use the feature itself but I had thought this needed to be done

> Machines that use an EFA must belong to security groups that allow all traffic between all hosts in the security group. Clusters that use the Machine API are not configured to meet this requirement by default.

Reviewer 2: Thanks Joel, yes, in our testing we use the worker security group "${var.cluster_id}-worker-sg", but it's used for all worker machines. Creating a new dedicated security group for the machines that use an EFA seems to be a better choice.

> Machines that use an EFA must belong to security groups that allow all traffic between all hosts in the security group. Clusters that use the Machine API are not configured to meet this requirement by default.

Reviewer: Yeah, so long as the security group allows all traffic, as required by EFA, then I think we are good. Using a dedicated one for EFA instances definitely makes sense to me

> Machines that use an EFA must belong to security groups that allow all traffic between all hosts in the security group. Clusters that use the Machine API are not configured to meet this requirement by default.

Author: If I am following along correctly, perhaps something like this make sense?

```suggestion
Machines that use an EFA must belong to security groups that allow all traffic between all hosts in the security group. You might find it helpful to create a dedicated security group for machines that use an EFA.
```

> Machines that use an EFA must belong to security groups that allow all traffic between all hosts in the security group. Clusters that use the Machine API are not configured to meet this requirement by default.

Reviewer: Yeah I think that works well, thanks

+
.Example unencoded data
[source,terminal]
----
[crio.runtime]
default_ulimits = [
        "memlock=-1:-1"
]
----
+
.Example base64-encoded data
[source,terminal]
----
W2NyaW8ucnVudGltZV0KZGVmYXVsdF91bGltaXRzID0gWwogICAgICAgICJtZW1sb2NrPS0xOi0xIgpdCg==
----

. Create a file named `unlimited-memlock.yaml` that contains the following YAML definition:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
  name: 02-worker-container-runtime <1>
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,<base64-encoded-memlock-data> <2>
        mode: 420
        overwrite: true
        path: /etc/crio/crio.conf.d/10-memlock <3>
----
<1> Specify a name for the machine configuration.
<2> Specify a base64-encoded string for the unlimited `memlock` file data.
<3> Specify the path for the `memlock` resource.

. To create the `MachineConfig` object, enter the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f unlimited-memlock.yaml

> ----

Reviewer 2: When did testing, we can create machine with EFA networkInterfaceType without these steps, so I think we can move this part (creating unlimited-memlock) to modules/machineset-enabling-efa-options.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-aws.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="machineset-creating-efa-options_{context}"]

> = Creating machines that use an AWS Elastic Fiber Adapter

Reviewer: This needs updating, it's `Elastic Fabric Adapter`, ref, https://aws.amazon.com/hpc/efa/

You can deploy compute machines that use an AWS Elastic Fiber Adapter (EFA) by adding the `networkInterfaceType` field to the machine set YAML file for your compute machines.

.Prerequisites

* You have configured security groups to support the use of an EFA.
+
Machines that use an EFA must belong to security groups that allow all traffic between all hosts in the security group. Clusters that use the Machine API are not configured to meet this requirement by default.
+
You can manually configure your security groups to support the use of an EFA by using the AWS Management Console or the AWS CLI. For more information, see the Amazon EC2 documentation about https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#updating-security-group-rules[updating security group rules].

.Procedure
////

> //Per Huali and Zhaohua, only the steps to set `networkInterfaceType` are required. Therefore, I am not sure what to do with these steps:

Reviewer: If we know this feature isn't useful without this supplement, then I think it makes sense to include it

. Create a file named `unlimited-memlock.yaml` that contains the following YAML definition:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
  name: 02-worker-container-runtime <1>
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,W2NyaW8ucnVudGltZV0KZGVmYXVsdF91bGltaXRzID0gWwogICAgICAgICJtZW1sb2NrPS0xOi0xIgpdCg== <2>
        mode: 420
        overwrite: true
        path: /etc/crio/crio.conf.d/10-custom <3>
----

> <1> #Is this prescriptive or is it a user choice what to put here?#

Reviewer: user choice though having a recommendation isn't harmful I would guess?

> <2> #Not sure exactly what this specifies or what the user needs to fill it in, have a question out in Slack.#

Reviewer: This is a base64 encoded string of the data for the file to be placed on disk. Might be worth including the decoded version as an example:
```
[crio.runtime]
default_ulimits = [
        "memlock=-1:-1"
]
```

> <3> #Is this prescriptive or is it a user choice what to put here?#

Reviewer: `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/` is prescriptive, the final part is up to the user, my recommendation would be to have it suggest `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/10-memlock` so it's obvious that it's configuring the memlock

. To create the `MachineConfig` object, enter the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f unlimited-memlock.yaml
----

. Verify that the daemonset that exposes EFA capabilities is running by entering the following command and observing the output:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get po -n kube-system

Reviewer: What DaemonSet? I don't see a prior mention of a DaemonSet?

Author: hm is it the Libfabric DaemonSet? That step came from this plan: https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/OSE/workitem?id=OCP-48650

I hadn't put it together, but I think that might be what it is. If so, will move this down under where we tell them to install libfabric, so lmk if I go that right :+1:

Reviewer: I think that's correct yes
